# 2.18.0 to 2.19.0

This document describes the upgrade instructions from `2.18.0` to `2.19.0`.

## Procedural Scheduling
Aerie `2.19.0` includes our Procedural Scheduling feature, which is a new way to write scheduling goals in Java. The documentation has been updated and reorganized to describe this new feature, see [Scheduling & Constraints](https://nasa-ammos.github.io/aerie-docs/scheduling-and-constraints/introduction/) for more details.

This is an early-release feature which may see some significant changes in future releases as we refine the idea - please feel free to submit feedback via [Github issues](https://github.com/NASA-AMMOS/aerie/issues) or our [#nasa-ammos-aerie-users Slack channel](https://jpl.slack.com/archives/C0163E42UBF) if you have questions or issues.

## DB Migrations
Two new database migrations have been added to support Procedural Scheduling. If you are upgrading from a past version and want to preserve your data, follow the instructions in the
[Database Migrations Guide](../deployment/advanced-database-migrations.mdx) to apply migrations after upgrading. Make sure to either pass the `--all` flag, or apply **both** migrations interactively.

## Breaking Change to RecurrenceGoal functionality
The behavior of the `RecurrenceGoal` has been changed when setting its `interval` parameter.

When setting the `interval` parameter to 1 hour, the old behavior would create 1-hour bins for the duration of the horizon (or the more restrictive applyWhen period) and place 1 activity in each of these bins, whenever it is possible considering global scheduling conditions, behaviour which could have resulted in intervals of >1 hour between consecutive activities. With the new behavior, the `interval` parameter means a strict 1-hour distance between consecutive activities.

New parameters have been introduced to give more control over the behavior of the goal and how it is solved:
- A user can now give lower (`separatedByAtLeast`) and upper bounds (`separatedByAtMost`)  on the separation between activities. Only the upper bound will lead to conflicts being created. In other words, having activities separated by less than `separatedByAtLeast` will not create a conflict. But, when a conflict exists, `separatedByAtLeast` will be used for solving.
- As said above, the old `interval` parameter has been left but setting it to X is equivalent to setting both `separatedByAtMost` and `separatedByAtLeast` to X.
- The user can either use the `interval` parameter or the 2 new bounds parameters.
- Another new parameter `previousActivityStartedAt` allows the user to specify when the “last” activity happened. It can potentially be a negative duration if it is before the start of the planning horizon. If not set, this parameter is set to `-separatedByAtMost`.

The solver will now try several combinations to solve this goal, starting with the least number of activities possible (separated by a greater distance), and increase the number of activities until either all the temporal constraints are satisfied or it reaches a dead-end.

## Scheduling plan spec schema refactor (breaking change)

The primary key for `scheduling_specification_goals` has been updated to a new unique auto-incrementing integer: `goal_invocation_id`. This is to allow multiple "invocations" of the same goal definition in a plan spec.

This is only a breaking change if you were directly querying (through the API) the following tables:
- `scheduling_specification_goals`
- `scheduling_goal_analysis`
- `scheduling_goal_analysis_created_activies`
- `scheduling_goal_analysis_satisfying_activies`

If you were making these queries, take note of the following details to update your code:

GQL queries using `by_pk` against related tables, e.g. `scheduling_specification_goals_by_pk`, will need to be updated to use `goal_invocation_id`'s, or to use a non `by_pk` query and handle multiple goal invocations being returned.

Similarly, tables relating to scheduling analyses (`scheduling_goal_analysis`, `scheduling_goal_analysis_created_activities`, `scheduling_goal_analysis_satisfying_activities`) now store the `goal_invocation_id` of the specific invocation they're related to, and use this as part of their primary key, again so they can reference specific invocations of a goal, not just a single `goal_id` in an analysis. They also directly reference the `goal_analysis` table by foreign key instead of each referencing a `goal_definition`, since again, we can now have multiple `goal_analysis` entries for a given `goal_definition` in a scheduler run.

# New fields on `goal_definition` (non-breaking change)

`goal_definition` entries now have several new fields to support procedural scheduling:

```sql
type scheduler.goal_type not null default 'EDSL', -- can be 'EDSL' or 'JAR'
definition text, -- will be null if type is 'JAR', otherwise is traditional EDSL code
uploaded_jar_id integer, -- will be null when type is 'EDSL', otherwise references uploaded procedure jar
parameter_schema jsonb, -- auto populated by Aerie system based on annoations in procedure source code
```

You will only need to populate these new fields if adding procedural goals through the API. The UI and CLI have already been updated.

Arguments that will be passed to a specific goal invocation table live a in a new field `arguments jsonb` in the `scheduling_specification_goals` table.

The `goal_analysis` also now stores the "as-run" arguments that were passed to a invocation in a new field `arguments jsonb`, so they can be referenced when reviewing analyses.
